Missing final exam

Hi Dora, I have an issue with a business English 21 student who didn't receive a final exam score.  It's a little complicated, but it was an accident. In summary, I need to upload her final exam grade because I lost her final exam answers, and didn't know it, but now I have them.  I'll give the explanation as clearly as possible.

The exam stayed open for several hours while other classes were open also; busy day. She was among a handful of students who had a problem completing the exam through chaoxin, so I allowed them to submit their answers directly to me through private WeChat messages. I had arranged for everyone to change their screen name to Pinyin with student ID so I could find them later.    However, this student had some problem with her regular WeChat account and was locked out.  She sent me her answers from a friend's account -- no problem, I saw her answer come in.  I continued to receive many questions about the exam process from the 21 class and had to open the exam for English majors also.  There were many private messages from them also.  Her messages got buried under the stack of correspondence.  After I had a chance to return to all the students in business English 21 group who submitted through WeChat privately, I found each student through their Pinyin name and ID or their contact's picture (from the main group chat).  But I didn't see her name (didn't realize she used a friend's account).   

There was a very disappointing level of participation with that class, so while I was grading finals through chaoxin, I saw that her exam was submitted, but had no answers. Keep in mind, it's still rather difficult for me to match Chinese names with faces.  I didn't recognize the name. I  assumed she was among those who didn't care about the exam, because there were about 10 students who had stopped attending and we're not attempting to pass.  

So after I released the grades, she noticed the missing final and she showed me a screenshot of her friend's account.  Only with the screenshot was I then able to find her friend's account in my list. 

I now have her final exam grade and need to ask how to submit it.  I'm very sorry for the trouble.  It was an accident.

