Travel Vocab

Means of Transportation (交通工具方式):
Go by:  plane 飞机, car汽车, ship船, bicycle/bike自行车, horse骑马, foot步行.
              I fly
             I drive
             I sail
             I ride
Go on: horse, foot
             I ride
             I walk

           



Motion sickness

Useful travel expressions:
Public transportation (British: public transport) 交通工具: buses公交车, trains火车, airplanes飞机, ships船，subway地铁
Public transport place: bus station/stop公交车站, train station火车站, subway station 地铁站，airport机场, harbor码头/港口
The road道路 / the highway高速公路 / the port 码头/ the airport机场
Arrival / departure time 到达/出发时间
A journey旅程/旅途 is traveling from one place to another, especially in a vehicle.
I love going on long journeys.
To journey 旅行 (verb - usually used with adverb or preposition) = to travel somewhere.
We journeyed south.
Passport 护照
On business 出差
On vacation 独家
Customs 海关
Customs officer 海关员
Declare 声称/说明
Baggage 行李
baggage cart 行李车
baggage locker 行李寄存
baggage claim 行李托运
one-way ticket (British usually single) 单程票
a round trip 往返票
flight 航班
First class / Business class / Economy class 头等舱/商务舱/经济舱
take off / land 起飞/着陆
Check-in 登机/入住登记
Direct / transfer train 直达/转乘火车
Fare 票价
Platform 月台，站台
Tickets票
ferry (boat) 小木筏/小船
cruise 巡航，漫游
parking lot  停车场
park a car  停车
rent a car租车
unlimited mileage 不限里程
A car breakdown 车抛锚
Breakdown 抛锚
Garage 车库
Bus/coach公交/巴士
Insurance 保险
Airplane: A vehicle that flies and holds a lot of people. (noun) 飞机
Airport: A building for use by people who use an airplane for transport. (noun) 飞机场
Annual pass: A ticket which has validity of one year. (noun) 年票
Automatic doors: Doors which open by sensor without the need to open them manually.  (noun)自动门
Baggage: The items which a person takes with them on a journey. (noun)行李
Bicycle: A metal frame with a seat and wheels used for transport. (noun)自行车
Bike chain: An object used to secure a bicycle and prevent theft.自行车锁
Bus: A large vehicle for carrying many people. (noun)公交车
Bus lane: A portion of the road specifically for buses. (noun)公交车道
Bus station: A building for use by people who use a bus for transport. (noun)公交车站
Buzzer: A button used to inform the driver to stop. (noun)下车铃
Captain: The person that controls a ship or airplane. (noun)机长/船长/驾驶员
Pilot
Connection
Connecting flight
Transfer
Car: A small vehicle with four wheels that many people own. (noun)汽车
Check-in: An area which deals with customer documents prior to travelling. (noun)登机手续
Child seat: A seat designed for children for the purpose of safety and for use in a car or on a bicycle. (noun) 儿童座
Coach: A large vehicle for carrying many people, like a bus but for long journeys. (noun) 长途汽车
Commute: The act of travelling from a fixed location to another destination regularly. (verb)往返旅行
Crew: The people who work on board a plane or ship. (noun)机组工作人员/船员
Cruise: A journey taken on a ship to many different countries within a certain period of time. (noun)巡航，漫游
Customs: An area which carries out security checks in an airport or on a border. (noun)海关
Customs officer: A person who carries out security checks in an airport or border. (noun)海关员
Cycle lane: A portion of the road which is only for the use of cyclists.  (noun)自行车道
Cycle path: A concrete surface used specifically by bicycles. (noun)自行车道
Declare: An act of informing customs of the items being carried. (noun)申报
Delay: When a method of transport is not running to the time originally anticipated.  (noun)延误
Depart: To move from a place where a person is currently situated. (verb)出发
Departure gate: An exit which enables travellers to enter an airplane. (noun) 登机口
Direct: To travel to a destination without making any stops. (adjective)直达
Disembark: To get off a ship. (verb)登陆
Dock: A place where ships arrive to and leave from. (noun)码头
Domestic: A journey which takes place in the same country. (adjective)国内的
Driver: A person who operates a vehicle. (noun)司机
Emergency exit: A door which when opened allows a person to leave an enclosed space safely.  (noun)紧急出口
E-ticket: A piece of paper containing pertinent details regarding a journey.电子行程票
Fare: The total cost of a journey. (noun)票价
Ferry: A small boat used to carry people or vehicles short distances. (noun)小船
Flight: The act of an airplane making its way to its destination. (noun)航程
Helicopter: A vehicle that flies and does not hold a lot of people. (noun)飞行员
Helmet: A piece of hard shaped material placed on the head for protection. (noun)头盔
Hire/rent: The act of borrowing a vehicle for a certain period of time. (verb)租借
Immigration: An area of the airport or border which requires documents to be checked. (noun)移民
Indirect: A journey which requires a stop prior to arrival at the destination. (adjective)中转
Insurance: A policy which protects the finances of the traveler for health and other purposes. (noun)保险
International: A journey which goes beyond the travellers’ home country. (adjective)国际的
Lorry: A vehicle for carrying a large amount of goods (US – Truck). (noun)货车
Meter: An electronic display which calculates the total distance travelled as a cost. (noun)仪表
Motor-bike: A two wheeled vehicle that has an engine. (noun)摩托车
One-way: A ticket that allows for the traveler to reach the destination but not to return. (adjective)单程
Passengers: The people who use a mode of transport controlled by another person. (noun)乘客
Passport: An important document necessary for travel. (noun)护照
Pick-up truck: A small vehicle with space to carry goods at the back. (noun)皮卡车
Pilot: The person who controls an airplane. (noun)飞行员
Platform: An area for people to wait for a train. (noun)站台
Priority seating: An area reserved for disabled people or those with small children. (noun)爱心专座
Railway: The system of tracks that trains use to get from one place to another.  (noun)铁路
Round-trip: A journey going from and returning to the same place. (noun)往返
Runway: A long strip of concrete used by airplanes when taking off and landing. (noun)跑道
Safety belt: A long piece of strong thin material used to secure people in a vehicle. (noun)安全带
Sidecar: A small hollow cart attached to the side of a motorcycle for transporting people. (noun)边车
Skytrain: A train that is driven above ground level on a suspended track. (noun)轻轨
Take-off: When an airplane leaves the ground to begin flying through the sky. (verb)起飞
Tandem: A bike that can carry two people at the same time. (noun)前后直排的
Tariff: An amount of money to be paid for the transport service. (noun)关税
Taxi stand: An area for people to book and wait for a taxi. (noun)的士站
Ticket: A piece of paper or card used as documentation to allow travel. (noun)票
Ticket counter: A service desk which sell tickets or deals with ticket enquiries. (noun)售票处
Ticket inspector: A person who checks passenger’s tickets for validity. (noun)检票员
Ticket machine: An electronic device which enables customers to purchase tickets. (noun)售票机
Tracks: The metal runners that direct a train. (noun)轨道
Train: A vehicle that travels on a railway tracks. (noun)火车
Train station: A building used to receive people who travel by train. (noun)火车站
Tram: A vehicle that follows tracks and travels within a city, usually along the roads. (noun)电车
Transfer: An act of changing transportation before arriving at the destination. (verb)转车/换乘
Transit: An act of waiting at another location for the next leg of the journey. (verb)中转
Traveller: A person who moves from one place to another in a short space of time (US – Traveler). (noun)旅客，游客
Truck: A vehicle for carrying a large amount of goods (UK – Lorry). (noun)卡车/货车
Underground: A train that travels under the ground through tunnels.  (noun)地铁
Unicycle: A bicycle that only has one wheel. (noun)三轮车
Van: A vehicle for carrying a small amount of goods. (noun)小货车
Vehicle: A form of transport for carrying people of goods. (noun)机车
Use English definition to test students for a vocabulary’s meaning. You can choose some important details as a blank information to ask them to fill the blank or complete the sentence. 

Motorcycle摩托车
Taxi/cab滴车
Helicopter直升飞机
Shuttle n/v机场巴士
different time-zone时差
delayed延误
jet lag时差
go at your own pace按照自己的节奏
port ( for cruise ships) or the ferry terminal港口
upper decks上层甲板
lower decks下层甲板
suitcase = a large bag which goes in the hold of the aeroplane手提箱
baggage / luggage (uncountable noun) = everything that you take with you on holiday.行李箱
“Do you have any hand luggage?”你有任何手提行李吗？
“The baggage handlers are on strike.”行李搬运工在罢工
oversize luggage = when your bag is very big (for example, if you are carrying skis)超大件行李
“There’s a special place to check in oversize luggage.”有一个特殊的地方可以托运超大件行李
handbag = a bag that women carry 手提包
backpack = a fabric suitcase that you carry on your back.双肩背包
money belt = a fabric belt that you wear around your waist and where you put valuable things like your passport or money钱袋
travel documents = everything that you need to travel, such as passport and tickets旅行证件


You can use travel role-plays 
Passenger: Good afternoon.乘客：下午好。
Airline Counter Attendant: Hello. How can I help you today?航空公司柜台服务员：您好，有什么可以帮到您的吗？
Passenger: I have a flight booked for 2:30.乘客：我预定了一个2：30的航班。
Attendant: Do you have a ticket number?服务员：您有票号吗？
Passenger: Yes. Here it is.乘客：有，在这里。
Attendant: Thank you. I'll also need to see your passport.服务员：谢谢您，我需要看一下您的护照。
Passenger: Okay.乘客：好的。
Attendant: All right. Everything seems to be in order. Would you prefer a window or an aisle seat?服务员：好的，一切就绪。您喜欢靠窗的还是靠走廊的座位？
Passenger: Window please.乘客：请选靠窗的。
Attendant: Okay. Do you have any bags to check?服务员：好，你有其他行李需要托运吗?
Passenger: Just one.乘客：就这一件。
Attendant: Here is your ticket. You will be boarding at gate B12.服务员：这是您的票，登机口在B12。
Passenger: Thanks for your help.乘客：感谢你的帮助。
After the role-play demonstration, ask for brave volunteers to improvise a role-play in front of the class using one of the following situations.
•	On a cruise ship
•	Buying a bus ticket
•	Boarding a train
•	Asking for a ticket upgrade
•	A flight delay/cancellation
You can also put students into small groups and ask them to write their own role-plays to perform in small groups or for the room.
In this activity, students will create travel brochures for a destination they are familiar with. It could be a place from their home country or another appealing location.

 











